# Accessibility and JS

## Author Speaks Incomprehensibly in Broken English, Introduces his Wife

1. Why is JS Villainized when the matter is accessibility?
2. What are some tips to make accessibility work?

## Why should I invest in Accessibility?

* Many people around the world, 650 million, have disabilities
* In Brazil, there are 45 million in this population - roughly a quarter of the entire population.
  That's a lot of people.
* Think of _who_ you might be excluding from your userbase - Stephen Hawking,
  one of the greatest minds in history, is a disabled person.
  Ludvig von Beethoven was a disabled person.
* Most people don't know what accessibility is all about. What is it?

## What would be an accessible application?

* Accessibility is a route to improvement and usability for all people.
* Consider the new accessibility icon vs the old one - the symbol of the person is
  able, active, independent, and engaged.

## Who needs accessibility?

* Anyone who is disabled, even temporarily (consider injuries).
* Color-blindness is an extremely important thing to consider when building an application.
* What about young children? Or more broadly, the illiterate.
* Consider all of the senses.

## So many accessibility guidelines

* WCAG and WAI-ARIA - the Web Content Accessibility Guidelines and
  Accessible Rich Internet Application Guidelines will be the focus here.

* WCAG has 4 basic principles:
  * Understandable
    * Readable
    * Predictable
    * Offers Input Assistance
  * Perceivable
    * is the information distinguishable?
    * what are some text alternatives
  * Operable
    * Navigable
    * Keyboard-accessible
    * Epilepsy-friendly (be careful of colors, blinking, other things that might induce seizures)
    * Enough time to use
  * Robust
    * Compatible with _different_ User Agents

## User Agents

* In some ways, a guide dog is a 'user agent'.  More commonly, a browser is a user agent.
* For blind users, Screen Readers are the most common user-agent.
  * Some examples: Jaws, NVDA, VoiceOver, SA, ChromeVox
  * Mobile Screen Reader usage has increased in lockstep with mobile browser uptake.

## We have to teach the user agents how to speak.

* I missed this


## Acessibility Barriers

* "Screen Readers do not support JS or it has been disabled" - this is a huge lie. 97.6% support JS
  * What do we do about the other 2.4%? Provide some accessible controls that do not require script-processing.
* Devs don't know about WAI-ARIA practices
  * ARIA: a specification that makes rich webapps accessible to more people with disabilities.
  * In short, ARIA makes it possible to build rich (javascript) web apps that are accessible.
  * can we use ARIA roles for our data attributes?
* AJAX stuff: ARIA makes it possible. `aria-live="polite"` - waits on all forms of user interaction
  before describing updates to the user.


## Notes:
* `aria-label` is more useful than `title` for links.
* ... focus needs to be set during navigation.
* Think beyond the mouse.
