# Headless Testing Against Real World Browsers with Xvfb (@clapexcitement, github.com/mdb)

* Works on the "Turn your web browser into a TV" team at Comcast
* They want Comcast to suck less (and work hard at it)



## Why is this important?

* Speaker is a huge advocate of Automated Testing
* You've heard all of this before: "When something [needs to] change, we know immediately what has broken"
* Continuous Integration Pipeline is important: needs to be fast, cheap, scientific, consistent, repeatable.
* This whole system/feedback cycle needs to be _fast_. Headless testing helps with this.



## The Problem: What if your technology can't run in one of these headless runtimes?

* e.g. Flash, NW.js, Google Polymer web-component tester
* We will focus on Google Polymer here. Polymer is a web component authoring tool.
  * Polymer's web-component-tester assumes there's a GUI. virtualized CI build agents don't have a display.



## Candidate Solutions: Use a different tool [e.g. not Jenkins VMs]

* Travis has documentation on how to leverage Xvfb for headless _real_ browser testing.
* Sauce Labs offers Selenium Cloud with access to over 100 browser-device combinations...
* The tools and potential other solutions mentioned above may not meet your needs for various reasons:
  * budget, licensing, load are a few.



## Enter Xvfb ("X Virtual Frame Buffer") ...



## Let's talk about the X Window System: How does the GUI display render on a Unix-like system?

* There is an X11 display server. This is the current release of the X Windowing System
* Windowing system for bitmap displays used to build GUIs.
* Xvfb behaves like any other X server, yet no graphical output is shown.
* The graphical operations are done entirely in memory but not written to the screen :)
* In other words, it doesn't require a screen.



## mdb's polymer testing box: [http://github.com/mdb/polymer-testing-box](http://github.com/mdb/polymer-testing-box)

Core technologies:
  * Xvfb, ansible, Google Chrome (with Flash, heh heh), Firefox, Node.js, bower, web-component-tester



## Demo Time

1. provision Vagrant Ubuntu box
2. Ansible will do some provisioning-stuff



## Vagrant

* Build on VirtualBox
* Tool to spin up lightweight, [headless] VMs
* Vagrant configurations are built up out of `Vagrantfile` files. These are written in Ruby.



## Ansible's playbook.yml

1. install and run xvib on display port 0
2. install node, bower, web-component-tester
3. install firefox



## [installation handwaving, speaker installs tools he says he needed via the configurations he described]



## cool demo. how can we ensure that this works? answer: VNC!!!

1. install VNC server on vagrant VM.
2. VNC from macbook to the vagrant VM. Boom~


## Next Steps

* Spin up builds in the cloud with AWS, Digital Ocean, etc?
