# Making SQL Cool Again: JavaScript on ACID



## JS vs SQL

* So many differences: SQL is static, strong, javascript is loose, duck-typed
* What are the similarities?



## JS [and SQL] both appear to be languages that will never die

* SQL has been around forever. Powers the largest websites in the world...
* Editor's note: PostgreSQL has great support for JSON documents these days.



## Why hasn't Node + SQL caught on?

* NoSQL + Node hit at the same time
  * Perhaps people wanted a stack that was all-new, JS-centric (like mongo)
* Node community has a "degree of antipathy toward relational DBs" - from Stackoverflow
* In reality, there are really great libs for working with SQL
  * BUT, these libs don't have great high-level impl-independent SQL abstractions



## Speaker created Knex.js and Bookshelf.js to create SQL Abstractions for JS

* Knex.js: standardizes some of the inconsistencies in SQL. [knexjs.org](http://knexjs.org)
  * Supports connection pooling, transactions, has a promise interface, stream interface, more.
  * Let's talk about some of these.


## Acid: Atomicity, Consistency, Isolation, Durability.


## Transactions: A "snapshot state" of the world

* Gives the ability to roll back to a previous state [e.g. if something fails]
* Gives locks - prevent others from altering data while you're using it.
* Tricky in node because of async. Need to pass the same DB connection to every thing that might be using it [again, tricky]
* Knex handles transactions nicely. You can pass the [connection-aware] transaction
  around between different DB operations (e.g. in a promise chain)
* Knex supports nested transactions - these can act as rollback points _within_ a transaction.



## Bookshelf is an ORM.

* Bookshelf: [bookshelfjs.org](http://bookshelfjs.org)
* Has typical relation setups: one-to-one, many-to-many, etc.
* Handles eager loading nicely.



## Shared models between client and server (i.e. "Isomorphic Javascript"): Sound great, but not-so-great in practice

* People are moving away from the Backbone-like notion models + collections, toward Immutable data
* Most of the model code on the backend doesn't really belong on the clientside.



## Speaker Proposition: "Node should become a target for traditional CRUD Web Applications. SQL is actually quite awesome."
