# ES 2016: the evolution of JavaScript

## Jafar Husain
* Architect of Falcor, Netflix's forthcoming UI Data Platform
* Lots of Reactive Programming experience



## ES6 == ES2015, ES7 == ES2016

* Why is ES6 now 'ES2015' and ES7 now 'ES2016'?
* ES committee wants to add features to ES on a yearly basis.
* ES 2015 features are already rolling into browsers
  * e.g. `Object.observe`
* ES2016 was actually being planned concurrently with ES2015



## ES2016: How do we make Async Programming Easier?

* ES2015 introduced 'Arrow' Functions e.g. `x => 1 + y`
* What if we could write async programs without callbacks?
* 'Blocking' is easy, but bad. Let's rename Blocking to 'Pulling'
  * e.g. `price = getStockPrice("Denim Inc")`
    1. Image that `getStockPrice` is a blocking method that waits to return
    2. data delivered in the return position of the function.
* What if we want to _wait_ instead of block? 'Waiting' means 'Pushing'
  * e.g. callbacks - values are pushed into data in the callback position
    (as opposed to blocking code, where you get it in the `return` position).
  * waiting is good, but being in the callback position leads to the "pyramid of doom"
  * What if waiting was as easy as blocking and there was syntax-level support for this?
  * Well actually, increasingly, there is!



## ES2015 introduced the Promises API into the core language.

* Promises get _closer_ to the ideal of syntax-level support for return-position async.



## ES2016 will introduce generator functions and `yield` syntax that looks the same for waiting and blocking.

* Allows loops and try/catch on async operations
* Pulling and pushing are symmetrical.



## Generator Functions: These are difficult to understand and powerful. Let's try to understand them

* Generator: a function that returns multiple values.

```
function* getNumbers() {
  yield 42;
  yield 32;
  return 19;
}

var iterator = getNumbers();
console.log(iterator.next())
// return: {value: 42, done: false}
console.log(iterator.next())
// return: {value: 32, done: false}
console.log(iterator.next())
// return: {value: 19, done: true}
```

* de-sugars to a state machine.
  * in compile, generator functions figure out all possible states that a function can return and builds states for those.
* generators return iterators: these give you a way to pull out the next value `iterator.next()` above. [noah note: This sounds quite a bit like streams... :)]
* generators also have a way to be a source of data via observers. you can push values with `.next(valToPush)`
* this unlocks asynchronous iteration pattern, which is very powerful. produces code that _appears_ to block (syntax-wise) but actually waits.



## There's a Library for the `spawn` function: Task.js

* But can we do it without a library?
* ES2016 does this! Instead of `spawn`, there's a method called `async`
  and instead of `yield` there's `await`.



## How does ES Feature Maturity Lifecycle Work?

* ES6 features have a multi-step Maturity Model
* Async is in 'Draft' stage (stage 2)
* Until ES6 lands, use Babel to unlock `spawn` and `await`



## What if you want to wait on multiple values?

* In ES6, all collections are iterables.
* `for...of` -
* `for...on` [proposal] - loop over a stream of information
* Problem: the web has no standard `Observable` interface. Many, Many observable APIs - DOM Event, Webstocks, Node Streams, Service workers, XHR, setInterval...
* ES2016 proposal: `Observable` contract for all of these interfaces
  * Interesting, swapping object and return types on `Iterable` produces `Observable`.
    * What's the inversion?
    `producer.observable(observer)`
    `observable.next(val)`

* The hope: implement observable for many-or-all of the Push APIs mentioned above
* Mentioned feature currently at 'strawman' stage

esdiscuss.org: discussion and lifecycles of new features






