# JS CSS: Parsha Pourkhomami (@parshap)



## This talk is about ideas, not code.



## CSS unlocks website styling, which is awesome. Layouts, visual effects



## But you know what? CSS has limitations.

* No constants or variables
* No way to extend the language
* No dependency management (or really bad e.g. `@import`)
* No code sharing or re-use
* No interoperability with JS
* Sometimes these limitations are good, sometimes (especially in large-scale apps)
  they...aren't so good
* People have worked around these limitations by creating CSS preprocessors.



## Preprocessors are weird: ambiguous syntax, weird semantics

* mixins in CSS often look like functions, but are not functions
* in some pre-processors (e.g. Stylus), swapping lines will very surprisingly break code (without producing an error)
* LESS has eight ways to import dependencies.
* variable declaration works, but overriden variables may produce unexpected side-effects.
* Whitespace-sensitive math, unit conversion (less ignores units on second operand if you're doing division).



## Language Design is Hard.

* Can we use JS to do CSS better?
* key-value pairs of selectors (keys) to values (properties, where key is property name and val is property value)



## You CAN represent CSS via JS, but why?

* Better Variables
* Arithmetic that works
* Modules - `require` for CSS, because it's actually JS
* Code Reuse:
  * Share contants without changing values to match everywhere - if your app is in JS, this increases reuse quite a bit.
  * 'mixins'
* Take advantage of NPM - re-use some style modules (or publish some of your own)
* Unlocks JS tooling to be re-purposed for building up styles.



## Warning: Mad Science Ahead

* Prerequisite: CSS AST (don't need to write CSS as mentioned above, but we _do_ need to be able to inspect the syntax tree)
* `css-parse` module does this.
  * You can generate CSS strings from syntax trees `.stringify` [I think], (or feed it CSS and get a syntax tree back)
* `@supports` syntax is for Feature Queries (this is in a draft or a spec, but not implemented in most browsers.
* If we can access the AST clientside, we can use info about the _browser_ to generate the _correct_ CSS for the client:
  * Walk the tree, find unsupported rules, do feature detection, mutate AST if necessary, inject new styles if necessary.
  * This could produce some really powerful results in browsers that lack certain CSS features. e.g. runtime Flexbox polyfill.
  * [`css-layout`](http://npmjs.org/css-layout) module can calculate dimensions of a given layout if you feed it an abstract DOM tree and the styles that will be applied.
