# (math == art && art == code) ([@thisisjohnbrown](twitter.com/thisisjohnbrown))

* Math is necessary to manipulate colors.
* Music is data. (it's a stream of notes arranged in position on a scale over a [pre-defined] duration of time).
* Speaker creates digital art in his spare time. Dropped out of art school, twice.
* Sine and Cosine at their most basic are rotation and movement. Interesting possibilities unlocked by layering.
* Contrary to what some would say, the speaker says that Digital Art _is_ true art.



## Learning code is way more fun when you're making art

* The mandate comes from within, the exploration comes at no cost.
* Art is almost always a personal project. Personal projects also have the gift of internal mandate, free exploration.
  * Unless of course you _are_ being patronized for the work.
* Making art in code introduces a lot of interesting (and often surprisingly practical) problems to solve.



## Speaker demonstrates enormous physical tower of LEDS. He moves the mouse and the LED position and color moves.

* Speaker then demonstrates automating the tower's lights. It crashes a few times, but it's very impressive.



## Speaker shows process of building the structure leading up to the talk [starting a few days earlier]



## LED Tower: What did he learn about in the process?

* Bitwise operators (e.g. `<<` and `>>`)
* LED dithering



## Let's Corrupt Some Data

* Collaborative project with a designer
* What happens if we change a JPEG in a text editor?
* What if we make a Twitter bot that corrupts Avatar JPEGs and animates it?
  * Pretty cool. Tweet at `@avatarglitch` for results.



## Let's Corrupt Some Data: What did he learn in the process?

* How JPGs are constructed
* Buffers
* How to make animated GIFs
* [co-creator] learned how to make a bot on Twitter
* They turned it into a teachable moment and did a talk about it in PDX.



## "Let's Make a Plinko!" (The Price Is Right)

* "Can we make a generative Plinko board"?
* Built a really amazing plinko board that has a Canvas-generated backdrop. Backdrop responds to plinko token location



## What did he learn in the process?

* Lots of hardware stuff: e.g. sensors, voltages, serial ports



## Homework:

* Option 1: Uncontext - given some parameters that come through in Websockets, what cool thing can you build? [did he provide a URL for this?]
  * e.g. 'Big Data, Little Data' by Libby White - Animated Cartoon project
  * e.g. 'Consequent' by Lucas Wick - Generative music project
* Option 2: Codepen - fork something and explore it
* Option 3: Creative Code Group - find one near you. And if you can't find one, start one :)
