# Knitting for Javascripters ([@kosamari](http://twitter.com/kosamari))



There are some interesting parallels between coding and knitting:

* Coding is very binary at a low level, knitting is binary at a low-level.
* Two distinct core patterns: Knit-Stitch and Pearl-Stitch
* There's a "Github" for knitters: Ravelry
* There's a syntax for knitting that very closely resembles code. Pretty amazing.



## Speaker: "We can pseudo-knit in JS!"

* Speaker output a 'scarf' pattern onto the screen
* Speaker then knitted a scarf using the same procecural pattern.
* There was a bug (or so it seemed). Seemed to have something to do with "Hyperbolic Geometry"...
* Hyperbolic Geometric a.k.a. "ruffles". :smile_cat:
* Euclidean Geometric and Elliptical are easy, but Hyperbolic Geometry is comparatively difficult to model in computer graphics.
* Speaker got an older sewing machine that promised to do some of the more complex knitting
  that she wanted to do, but it turned out to be kind of arcane/difficult to operate.



## Jacquard Knit: from Jacquard Loom

* Jacquard Loom was actually the model for punch-card computing
* 1970s knitting machines actually took punchcards as input, much like old computers.
* one pixel == one stitch - compare to Dot Matrix printing



## "How Can I Make an [awesome] JSConf Logo Pattern?"

* "Given a bitmap image, what's the next step toward getting my 'output' (the knitted thing)?" Answer: Need bitmap data!
* Speaker used Canvas + PhantomJS. This was slow, moved to `gm` package (GraphicsMagick)
  * Given an image, able to output bitmap data with `gm`.
  * Now we need it to be greyscale. To greyscale, find the highest value of all three RGB and repeat it across all channels. Wow, that's easy.
* At this point, the speaker was able to convert image to bitmap and then get the greyscale data.



## The Journey From Greyscale

* Greyscale was great, but there are no shades of grey on the machine. It only takes two colors.
* First cut: if it's closer to white, make it #ffffff, if closer to black, make it #000000
  * This produced a sub-optimal image.
* We need dithering! Dithering is an intentionally applied form of noise.
  * Quality was significantly better, but we were still missing some quality.



## Halftone Dithering

* We need _ordered_ dithering aka 'halftone' screening.
* Given a base image's Greyscale data, and a 'noise matrix', evaluate colors and sort them into #0 and #f
  * Some noise matrices give better output than others for particular images. Lots of options here.
* We now had knit pattern files! (knitting machine accepts `.dat` format.)
* Bitwise operators are pretty awesome.
  * Kind of like magic:
  * `<<` left shift: push something to the left.
    * Since we're using bits, we push the bit to the left in binary.
  * `|` bitwise OR: like an OR.
  * `>>` right shift: duh



## Speaker Live Demonstrated Knitting the JSConf Logo given the pattern she generated from the logo image.

That was awesome.

[github.com/kosamari/electroknit](http://github.com/kosamari/electroknit)
[github.com/kosamari/color-mixer](http://github.com/kosamari/color-mixer)
