# Concurrency and Parallelism in JS ([@naveedi](http://twitter.com/naveedi))



## Concurrency vs Parallelism

* Concurrency: "How do you make an app more usable?"
  * Imagine two queues of people and a revolving door, can they take turns to utilize the resource more efficiently?
* Parallelism: "How can we be faster by exploiting hardware availability"
  * Give the two queues of people _two_ revolving doors to increase throughput.
* In the real world, concurrency and parallelism are often mixed.



## 1995: The Web Got JavaScript

* Over the next 20 years, JS and websites have evolved. MS Office has been released as a web application, VR in the browser, etc.



## Today's JS is [comparatively] fast and getting faster.

* Also look at asm.js, which is even faster. asm.js is almost as fast as clang code.
* If JS is so fast, where's the problem?



## We aren't utilizing the CPU very much. But why does this matter?

* Lots of applications and application-types could become faster if we utilized
  CPUs and other resources more effectively.
* Parallel JS: an experiment to bring map-reduce to JS
  * 'Casual' API but too high of a learning curve
  * Low adoption because of learning curve
  * Performance wasn't there
* `postMessage` API:
  * slow
  * dependent on event loop
  * can't share state between caller/callee
* Buffer Transfer: [missed this]



## We want native-like performance in the browser/from JS. How?

* Ideal candidate will not be dependent on the event loop
* Should support the 'Extensible Web' philosophy - give power to developers to take low-level primitives to create awesome stuff
  (instead of high level rich stuff being created by standards bodies, etc)
* Should support threads/pthreads - these's a lot of evidence that _many_ (not all)
  applications will see performance improvements by utilizing threads/pthreads



## Shared Memory might be the answer.

* Wow, that's a small font.
* 'Incrementing Worker' example in a few different tools:
  * `postMessage`:  Worker tells 'Main' its state ("ready", "working", "here's your output") `    54245 messages per second.`
  * Shared Memory (`SharedArrayBuffer`, `SynchronicInt32`): same Main/Worker setup           `  6329114 messages per second.`
    * Not a fair comparison. This isn't a drop-in replacement for PostMessage, lots of low-level details exposed.
  * Abstraction on top of Shared Memory  - ~5x performance of `postMessage` (though still much slower than `SharedArrayBuffer`).



## Speaker demonstrates Mandelbrot algorithm with `SharedArrayBuffer`

* Speaker succeeded in bringing the CPU to more-or-less a grinding halt with JavaScript. High CPU utilization goal achieved!
* Near-perfect CPU scaling across all cores - imagine how this efficient CPU utilization could improve the quality of e.g. game performance.



## Speaker Demonstrates Unity3D utilization of `SharedArrayBuffer`

* Speaker notes that very few changes were necessary in the Unity3D demo code. Performance is great.
* In fact, increasing CPU utilization via `SharedArrayBuffer` allows for near-native performance.
* Speaker shows a quote that demonstrates just how big the 'Shared Memory' leap will be for performance via parallel execution.



## What's Next?

* Shared Memory is currently in Firefox Nightly
* `asm.js` supports shared memory (and pthreads)
* API may change a bit (not quite standardized)
* Google will start implementing this soon.
