# Polymer: The Future of Web Components (Chris Lorenzo)



## What is the past?

* HTML: originally used to publish research documents
* For the last ~decade we've been using HTML to build rich applications on the web
* The elements that we have for the web, even HTML5, are a little too primitive (or mis-purposed) for rich applications.
* Wouldn't it be better to have higher-level components that do exactly what we want to do?



## Web Components Specs



## Spec: Templates

* We have a `<template>` tag that doesn't print its contents, but stores it in memory.
* You can then use the Custom Element generated by the template like normal HTML
* Custom Elements can have their own custom attributes and their own content.



## Spec: HTML Imports

* Great place to store templates and request them.



## Spec: Shadow DOM

* Shadow DOM 'root' is a miniature DOM inside of the larger DOM. Like `<iframe>` (insofar as the styles don't leak out)
* Allows us to scope styles to a particular template (or sub-region of the DOM)



## Polymer

* Google's 'Polymer' library gives us some sugar on top of the Web Components specifications
* Data binding, interactions - enabled through Polymer.
* Polymer enables packaging HTML, CSS, Javascript as a single portable unit (the component)



## Problems

* Shadow DOM doesn't exist outside of Chrome (and recently Firefox)
* Selenium doesn't support Shadow DOM
* Difficulties with AMD and loading modules/libraries
* Build process (vulcanize) didn't exist at start


## Limitations

* IE10+
