# Recreating a Dialup Modem in Javascript ([@samccone](http://twitter.com/samccone))



## Connecting to the internet used to be noisy.



## And it used to be really slow to download stuff.



## What is sound?

* vibrations that travel through the air, into the eardrum, vibrations are converted into electrical frequencies, and these frequencies are interpreted by the brain as sound.
* waveforms.



## What is data?

* for a computer it's zeroes and ones. computers decode this stuff into forms that we are familiar with.



## How do we get data into audio?

* This is an encoding problem.
* Humans are great at encoding/decoding data!
* But communication breaks down when you don't have the info to
  decode the data. (e.g. two people that do not speak the same language)



## How do _computers_ speak?

* Computers need a way to "verbalize" stuff. A language and a mechanism
  for transporting information.



## Let's take a step back. Modern day communications needed to be:

* Fast to transmit
* Easy to use
* Cheap to implement



## This started with Claude Chappe (1800s)

* Wires and pans.
* Both sides needed to know the code.
* Evolved into the idea of THE OPTICAL TELEGRAPH.

THE OPTICAL TELEGRAPH had some downsides:

* didn't work in fog or in the dark
* took three people to operate
* lossy (sometimes difficult to interpret)

THE OPTICAL TELEGRAPH was used widely in france until 1837.



## Samuel Morse - 1836: Morse Code

* Got a letter from his father: "Your wife is ill."
  * Two days later, another horse: "Your wife has died."
  * The lack of ability to even respond was very upsetting...
* Electromagnetism: new idea at the time - "I can pass an encoded rhythmic
  tone over a wire (long-dash, short-dash) that people can decode."



## Emile Baudot - Baudot Code

* "Morse Code Operators are expensive. How can I make this easier/cheaper?"
* Baudot code - 5 bit code to send letters, translated with a chorded keyboard.
* The term "Baud" comes from Baudot. Baud = a single 'bit' of information.
* Baudot introduced multiplexing - the ability to send
  multiple messages over a single line.
  * The multiplexing was very primitive, but it worked.



## Alexander Bell - The Harmonic Telegraph/Audible Telegraphy - this became the telephone...

* "We can use tuning forks on both ends, stack the tones on top of each other..."
* Up to 10 signals on 1 telegram line. That's a lot of signals.
* "if you're only listening for a single tone, you can ignore all
  of the other noise, and _just_ use that tone to interpret the signal."



## How is data encoded into _audio_?

* "Frequency Shift Keying" (FSK)
* "Given a carrier signal, and a modulation signal, we can encode information
  into signals"
* The faster and faster it goes, the harder it is to interpret
  the signal with the ear. Luckily, computers are great at this.


## 1908: The Teletype (TTY)

* Allowed non-skilled operators to send and receive messages over a phone line.
* Some Teletypes are still in use today by disabled people.



## Why did we have FSK?

* telephone medium was intended to carry speech, but people wanted to hack it to send regular old data.
* modems are a great hack: they send data-as-"voice", the phone company does the work of getting it over the wire efficiently (shifting), and on the other end, the modem receives the data.



## Demo

* Input a string of data e.g. "hello", convert it to binary.
* Shift the bits to audio. Wow, that was cool.
  * Dark patches are high frequency, light patches are low frequency
* Data Extraction: The Hard Part.
  * We have this waveform, how does it relate to binary data?
    * Look at the waveform and chunk it into "bins".
  * Now what? There's an algorithm (The Goertzel Algorithm)
    * You tell it the frequency that you're looking for, it tells you
      how intense the frequency is. Allows to extract that single intensity over time.
    * This doesn't give us a perfect result. Spectral leakage.
      ...What does that even mean?
  * After more investigation and work (Hamming window, Fourier Transform), it worked.
* New Demo: Text encoded as 0s and 1s, converted to waveform, sent over the wire,
  returned  as text. But how do we handle noise?
* Noise can really mess things up. The Goertzel Algorithm can
  help reconstruct a message even with noise.
* To go faster, increase the number of multiplexers.

That was awesome.
