# Drawing Hands: Built-ins written in JavaScript ([@jdalton](http://twitter.com/jdalton))



* Self-hosting: parts (or the entirety of the runtime language written in the language itself)



## The Good

* Ease of development - because these are written in JS, we can see and inspect their implementation, which leads to more contributions
* Performance - sometimes we get superior performance because there's no need to go anywhere else to execute the code



## Examples

* `Array.prototype.indexOf` is written in JS.
  * Does some strict equality comparisons.
  * Concept of 'packed' arrays - is the array sparse? If so, we need to execute
    a different codepath (sparse arrays need some C++ code)
  * lodash has better-than-builtin perf by implementing a _subset_ of the builtin
    functionality instead of the whole thing. then, he can add features because
    of the extra performance slack.

* `Intl` - the internationalization API
  * In IE this is a built-in.
  * Good that it was able to handle arguments simply, easy to understand,
    read, and integrate with C++.
  * _Bad_ insofar as there are side-effects that had to be guarded against.
    * Also, heavier boilerplate.
  * _Ugly_ insofar as above (side effects), testing and ensuring correct stack
    behavior was challenging.

## Notes on Performance

* There's no silver bullet on performance. Inlining JS is great
  but you don't have some of the same low-level tools to inspect performance.
  * 2012: "The Hidden cost of JS Natives"
* When all browsers don't have the same performance in a built-in, what do you do?
* Developers shouldn't feel forced to have to use a library
  just to have faster built-ins. Speaker wants built-ins to be well-optimized
  so that there should be no reason for a library to re-implement a built-in method
  with code that's faster.
