# 30 Minutes or Less: The Magic of Automated Accessibility Testing ([@marcysutton](http://twitter.com/marcysutton))



## Speaker is an Accessibility Engineer, primary contributor to ng-aria



## Speaker Ordered A Pizza.

> "In the amount of time it would take to have a pizza delivered,
>  I'll teach you about accessibility through JavaScript testing."



## Accessibility: How we can build websites that work for _more_ people.

* One fifth of the human population on the planet has a disability.
  We can't keep leaving these people out.
* Accessibility basics: alternate text, how the document is structured, semantics,
  keyboard interactivity (the app/page should be interactive via the keyboard),
  color contrast, focus management
* You won't start out being perfect right away.
  "sucking at something is the first step toward being sort of good at something."



## Can the tooling do some heavy lifting for us?

* Can we identify accessibility issues through automated tools?
* Let's start with manual testing, then sorta-automated-testing,
  and finally, definitely-automated-testing.
* Worth noting: automated testing is no substitute for [early] real user feedback.
  * Given that we're talking about accessibility, it's important that disabled
    persons are giving the feedback.


## Manual Testing



### Step 1: Tab through the page with the keyboard.

* There _should_ be good focus styles.
  (high visual contrast between foreground and background colors)
  * Good example at gov.uk



### Step 2: Try a site with a screen reader

* Demo: Soundcloud with Safari's screen reader (CMD + F5)
* Soundcloud has done a good job of adding text alternatives to the page.
  Overall, the site works well with a screenreader.



## Sorta-Automated Testing

* Check for headings and semantic structure.
* A user with a screen reader can use your heading structure
  to get a good idea of what's on your site.
* Firefox: install Web Developer Toolbar, go to View Document Outline
  * This tool gives a good idea of the document hierarchy
    and whether or not it's accessible.
* Chrome Accessibility Tools
  * Demo at CNN.com: Tools -> Audits -> Accessibility
  * The 'Accessibility Tree': Parallel structure to the DOM,
    presents information to users on demand.



## Definitely Automated Testing

* `a11y` package by Addy Osmani: unlocks devtools auditing from the command line.
  * e.g. `a11y cnn.com` - this will audit cnn.com and print the results to stdout.
  * uses phantomjs, can be run against any servers (e.g. local webserver).
* Consider integrating this with builds.



## Protractor: end-to-end testing for Angular - has an accessibility plugin.

* Wrapper around Selenium, can be used to test a wide array of accessibility
  concerns (e.g. appropriate contrast)
* Tests (in this tool) are written in Jasmine with normal asserts.
  Very familiar if you've written other tests in this style.
* Ironically, failure/success messages are in red and green, which can be difficult
  for some people to distinguish :)



## Unit Testing for Accessibility

* You could test:
  * aria properties (make sure they exist and are appropriate)
  * keyboard operability (can I use the keyboard to navigate the site?)
  * semantics (is the generated accessibility hierarchy appropriate?)
  * existence of text alternatives to non-text content



## Finally, the speaker's pizza arrived.

Learning about accessibility testing only took ~27 minutes.
