RESTful UI Rendering (Pete Hunt)
================================

* Pete owns the web experience on instagram.com and contributes to React
  - the instagram stuff includes some back-office stuff that users _don't_ see.
  - React is used for a LOT of things at instagram/facebook. mobile and desktop
  - Instagram.com is one giant React component

* There were many "hard, generalizable lessons" learned from building React. Here are those guiding principles



The Evolution of Distributed Systems
====================================

* Building distributed systems is easier than ever
  - "CoffeeScript, node, and mongo will dominate the ambient computer era..."
* Late 1980s: Message Passing was how we did distributed systems
  - MPI standard. We're seeing a resurgence of this style
    - one process on a network messages another process on that same network.
    - this is *too low level* for applications today. difficult to model application state over time.

* A few years later: distributed object systems
  - CORBA, RMI, SOAP, DCOM, etc.
    - pass remote object references around.
      - "where the hell is the object that I'm calling messages on?"
      - individual nodes in the system might have to talk to lots of other nodes.
      - unpredictable: _when_ is the computation running? _where_ is it running? latency can be very high. what do we do in a failure case? 
  - multi-step, multi-directional messaging makes a system slow, fragile, and unpredictable.
    - "Leaky abstractions are often worse than no abstractions at all." this makes MPI better than distributed object systems

* A few years later: the rise of REST
  - Roy Fielding's dissertation: apply these constraints to the system when you design it and these properties will emerge, and you fall into the "pit of success"
  - properties include: performance, scalability, simplicity, modifiability, visibility, reliability
  - constraints:
    - client-server: the client (ui) deals with different problems than the server (data storage)
    - statelessness: no client context on the server. server doesn't hold onto client state and vice-versa
    - cacheability: messages are cacheable by default and explicitly marked uncacheable
    - layered: clients can't tell if they're connected to a server or a cache or proxy
    - uniform interface: data is identified by a URI, the same representation used to read the data is (ideally) identical to what is used for writing by the client


The Evolution of UI Development (note parallels with distributed systems)
=========================================================================

- ad-hoc: "the PHP Spaghetti years"
  - Early 80s UI development was very similar to this -  MVC pattern was an abstraction that helped to mitigate the problem. 

- MVC and lots of observers seems to have similarities issues with the distributed object system phase. If UI events fire in the wrong order, your UI might display an incorrect state!
  - what dom operations are happening? when are DOM operations and computation occurring?
  - multi-step, multi-directional callbacks make the system slow, fragile, and unpredictable.

- React is similar to Apple's UIViewController
  - [blahblah this is how React works]

- How do we fall into the "pit of success" in UI?
  - no DOM manipulations. concern yourself with "what do I render" not "how do I render it"
  - no state in the rendering layer
  - cacheability: display logic is memoizable
    - react computes diff, which is usually fast. but what about when it's not so fast?
    - you can tell react to cache via `shouldComponentUpdate` which returns a boolean  that tells the component whether or not to update on state change.
  - layerability: [this space for rent]()
  - uniform interface: [also for rent]()
    - browser sends native events to react event system, react normalizes events and does event dispatch with synthetic events. nice separation between the DOM/browser (which is still, even in 2014, non-standard) and the interface
  - more cacheability: Om will batch events to be delivered at the same time for performance
  - more layering: there's no reason why the DOM normalization mentioned above couldn't be canvas or SVG (it can - see React-Art!!!), and at facebook they take advantage of this. and so should you.
  - DNS, Memcache, Unix pipes: these things and others are both RESTful
  - 'Web Components' (as described by W3C): not restful?
  - constraint solving in the browser/UI: the next frontier?
  - immutable data and functional programming are powerful and FAST.
