Keynote (Joe Armstrong)
=======================

* "I had a disaster with OpenOffice and Keynote and Dropbox"
* "Should I use HTML-to-PDF"? Grunt problems, etc.

Computing History
=================
* June 12 1948: Tom Kilburn writes the first sort of "program" that we think of today. Quite possibly the last program that was ever correct.

* 1985: computers are fast.
* 2014: computers are fast. 1000x faster than in 1985. a 60s boot time in 1985 should be a 60ms boot time in 2014, but it isn't.

"The Mess We're In"
===================

1. Software is getting worse-and-worse over time.
  - When software didn't work in the past, we would look at the program.
  - Today, we tend to look to Google instead of the program to figure out why it doesn't work.

2. What went wrong?
  below

3. What do the laws of physics have to say about computation?
  - Causality
    - a cause must always precede its effect
    - Information travels at or less than the speed of light
    - we don't know that something has happened until we get a message saying that the event has happened
    - we don't know how things are now at a remote location, only how they were the last time we got a message from them.
  - Simultanuity
    - depending on your position, you may see things happen in a different order than an observer at another position
  - Entropy
    - Entropy always increases.
    - _SOFTWARE_ entropy always increase.
  - The ultimate laptop is a 1KG black hole!
    - lots of components squashed into a tiny space (10^-27 meters)
    - huge storage capacity
    - emits data through Hawking radiation and quantum entanglement
  - why not use a universe as a computer?
  - no matter what, the universe has a limit to the ultimate speed of computation, so even if we get very powerful, we will approach this limit.


4. What can we do about it?
  - the entropy reverser: put 'all of the programs' into it and a smaller number of programs comes out. a software condenser
  - abolish names and places:
    - to talk about things, the things must have names.
      - we could SHA-1 everything
      - URIs are bad.
        - DNS can be spoofed, host can be unavailable, stuff can be cached, pieces of content can be changed.
        - what if we just used hashes instead of names?
          - address cannot be spoofed (there is no address)
          - no problem choosing a name (there is no name)
          - how do you find things in this scheme?
            - ask the "nearest" machines that have lists of these things.
              - see 'chord kademlia' - sort-of combines ideas of git and bittorrent
  - how do we build the condenser?
    - find all identical files (sha-1 'em)
    - find the most similar file to a given file. there are a few ways to do this:
      - least compression difference algorithm is one of those ways

5. Summary
  - We've made a mess - small programs have more possible states than all of the atoms on earth.
  - We need to reverse entropy
  - we need math
  - we need low-power computers so that we don't do net environmental damage


Seven Deadly Sins:
==================

1. Code that you cannot understand even a week after writing it
  - Write comments.
  - A book is just a big comment (jokingly)
2. Code with no specifications
3. Code that is shipped as soon as it runs and before it is beautiful
4. Code with added features
5. Code that is very very fast, very very very obscure, and incorrect.
6. Code that is not beautiful
7. Code that you wrote without understanding the problem


* What is legacy code?
  - It's stuff that was written by programmers that are now dead.
  - Management thinks that modifying legacy code is cheaper than a toal rewrite


* Complexity
  - a C program with six 32-bit integers can have more states than the number of atoms on the planet!
  - What about JavaScript?
    - Don't ask.
  - a computer is a finite state machine...with more potential states than the atoms in 2^7633587786 universes. That's a lot of states. It is very difficult to find two machines in the same state  (hence the speaker's difficulty in resolving his Grunt issue)


* Failures
  - You can't handle failures on one computer. You need at least two computers, and probably many more.
  "Systems should be more like biological systems, with the ability to repair theirselves over time"


* Languages 
  - In 1985 everybody knew `sh`, `make`, and `C`.
    - Now programmers have no common languages and cannot talk to each other.
    - 'Grunt', 'Dooby', 'Footran', etc
    - Speaker found 2500 languages to choose from. That's a lot of languages.
  - Build tools have the same problem.

"Without an Internet Connection, I cannot program"
- we need stack overflow/google, etc, to program.
- This is a problem.


* Names
  - Names are imprecise
