Functional Programmer Lingo Explained, With Pictures (Katie Miller)
===================================================================

Tenets:
-------
1. FP is useful
2. FP is accessible - it's a different way of thinking about computation

Caveats:
--------
1. Details will be skipped.
2. Analogies are _just_ analogies and are maybe (probably?) inaccurate
3. Examples are in Haskell, but concepts apply to FP broadly


* Haskell
  - variables are immutable
  - `++` is an infix operator that produces a new concatenated list
  - in haskell, function application is just a space, no parems
  - function definition: `funcname :: argument1 -> argument2 -> argument 3`
    - `funcname :: TypeClass type => [instanceofType] -> [instanceofType] -> [instanceofType]`
    - `funcname :: [instanceofType] -> [instanceofType] -> [instanceofType]`


- Referential Transparency: a property of an expression in a program that can be replaced with its value without changing the behavior of the program.
  - example: replace expression `(2 + 3)` with `5`
  - why it matters: since there are no side effects, we should be able to replace expressions with whatever they evaluate to. the ability to replace things this way makes it easier to reason about code.
  - How do you do R.T. I/O?
    - umm, you kind of don't. you get, maybe, a file path back as a return result, not the I/O operation itself.


- Higher Order Function: a function that takes another function as an input and/or returns another function as its result.
  - e.g. a `map` function
    - here's what map looks like in haskell: `map :: (a -> b) -> [a] -> [b]`
  - why it matters: you can glue pieces of code together and build larger things from stuff you've already built.


 - Currying: partial application of functions
  - e.g. a `maybe` function that takes 3 arguments. we give is two arguments, and we get back a function that takes the single remaining argument.
  - why it matters: see 'Higher Order Function'


- Closure: a function that keeps the 'environment' in which it was created.
  - e.g. - don't make me write another haskell example :(
  - why it matters: allows us to get access to the environment that the function was defined in, even if we aren't in that environment any more.


- Functor: a structure that can be 'mapped' over
  - e.g. `fmap (*2) [1,2,3]` (returns `[2,4,6]`), `fmap reverse getLine('foo')` (returns `oof`)
  - why it matters: we can find common patterns and reduce code duplication


- Monad: a structure that puts values in a computational context and implements functions that allow these computations to be chained.
  - e.g. {insert example here} – apparently List and IO are both monads?
    - `['walk', 'nap', 'fight']` returns `[catwalk,'catnap','catfight']` when passed through a particular monad
  - why it matters: because the speaker said so


- Lens: a structure for accessing and mutating values in a data type
  - e.g. – `cat^.archEnemy^.name^.firstName` – `^` is a getter. I don't even actually see how this is related to a Lens, just looks like normal accessor stuff to me.
  - why it matters: provies concise + functional way of drilling down into data types to get or set


Conclusion: Welp,
-----------------


References
----------
* Try 'Learn You A Haskell For Great Good'
