DOMSTEP: A Browser Dance Party (Jamison Dance)
==============================================

1. Let's talk about the Web Audio API 
  - Instantiate an Audio Context, plug in sources, manipulate them, feed them to destinations (speakers)
    - audio contexts are a lot like real synths.
    - nodes that produce sounds are analogous to instruments that get plugged into contexts
  - Try OverTone for Closure!
  - {speaker introduced live/interactive example}

2. The Worst Theramin
  - {speaker showed 'The Worst Theramin'}
  - web audio api contexts have a biquad filter 
  - you can create oscillators on contexts. oscillators can have signal types (sawtooth, sine, etc) that are just specified by name (e.g. `'sawtooth'`)

3. Buffers
  - you can load sound files into a buffer, then connect the buffer to an audio context
  - speaker has loaded sound into a buffer and is displaying a canvas element with the spectrum analysis on the screen
  - {ascii drum machine} - this is cool
    - strings on the screen are matched to buffers and step-notation
  - flocking - a simple set of rules that controls the behavior of a group of particles to make them look like an intelligent swarm (of birds, or maybe bats)
    - the particles get random velocity vectors, neighbors help to manage cohesion, alignment, and separation. 
  - what if we changed the parameters of the flock to the beat?
    - this works nicely.
    - beats.js has a beatEmitter callback that we can change the behavior of the flock according to.
  - WebAudio API has a more reliable timer than setTimeout.
    - uses seconds instead of milliseconds
    - starts when the audio context is created
    - you can use the timer to schedule playback (e.g. of different buffers)

4. The secret of 'Wob'
  - It's just a sinewave that modulates the target wave (e.g. targets the amplitude of the sinewave)
  - In audio context, instantiate a new oscillator and a new gain object. attach the gainOscillator to the gain node. attach gain to the context.

5. More
  - "Signal Processing with the web audio api"
  - oreilly web audio api book free
  - "getting started with web audio api"
  - OVERTONE
  - flockingjs
  - collaborative web audio editor (@thedeftone)
  - splice
  - @jergason


6. Questions
  -

