Controlling Time and Space with Functional Reactive Programming - Evan Czaplicki
================================================================================

1. First-order Functional Reactive Programming (FRP): "How it works in Elm"
  * We want a way to deal with interactions in the real world: signals (e.g. DOM event) come in from real world user input, we process those signals and send them back to the user.
  * `lift`: a function that takes a signal and transforms it into another signal
  * `foldp`: "fold from the past" - compare to foldLeft, foldRight. 
  * `merge`: takes two signals, merges them together
  * `lift2`: takes two signals, applies a function to both of them, returns a new signal.
    * `lift{x}` functions go up to 8.
  * Core Design:
    1. Signals are connected to the real world
    2. Signals are infinite – you can't 'delete' a signal. Inputs to a program are fixed.
    3. Signal graphs are static – there's a known structure linking the pieces of the application together
    4. Elm (Signals?) is synchronous by default

  * Benefits in Elm:
    1. Efficiency
    2. Architecture
      * Applications normally break up nicely into four parts:
        1. Model - the full state of the application
        2. Update - "how do I take that state and 'step it forward'?"
        3. View - "how do I take the application and show it on the screen? (html)"
    3. Hot-swapping - change the behavior of a program while the program is running.
    4. Time-travel debugging - this is a property that we get because we have a static signal graph

2.  Higher-order FRP: "What happens if signal graphs can be reconfigured?" 
  * What if we could rearrange the signal graph? What if the signal graphs were not static?
  * `join`: "I have a group of signals and I'm picking which one to listen to _right now_."
    * Problem: creating a new signal may need infinite lookback. (what if I never listened to a signal, but now I am)
      - everything that has ever happened needs to be kept track of _in case_ we need it down the line
    * Solution: only switch to signals that have "safe" amounts of history
      * i.e. restrict the definition of `join` with fancier types.
      * "Higher-order functional reactive programming in bounded space"

3. Asynchronous Data Flow: "What happens if signal graphs are not static, signals are  not infinite, and are not synchronous by default"
  - In this world, Signal graphs are  finite and the graphs are not static
  * `flatten` (fill this in)
  * Reactive Extensions in Asynchronous Data Flow have hot and cold signals - 'hot' keeps producing things, 'cold' has stopped.

4. Arrowized FRP: Signal graphs are NOT connected to the world and not static, but they are infinite. We don't explicitly talk about signals in this paradigm.


* Each of the paradigms above can be categorized by:
  - Synchronous by default?
  - Does it allow Asynchronous? 
  - Can you talk about inputs (signals) in it?
  - Does it allow reconfiguration of graphs?

References
----------
1. Concurrent FRP Thesis: http://elm-lang.org/papers/concurrent-frp.pdf
