You Can Be a Kernel Hacker (Julia Evans)
========================================

- Thesis: Kernel Programming is useful to learn, even if you're not planning on contributing kernel code.

- Caveat: this talk is geared to Linux, so it may be platform specific.

- What is a Kernel? It's code. A lot of code.

- When you go to google.com, kernel code run for:
  - typing the address
  - handling network packets
  - writing history files to disk
  - allocating memory
  - communicating with the graphics card to burn feedback onto the screen

- How do you call Kernel code? Well, there's this thing called a System Call
  - just an API for the operating system. e.g. when you open a file, there's a system call called `open`, `execve` starts a program, etc.

- `strace` is awesome.
  - normal debugging: look at source code, add 'print' statements, use your knowledge of the programming language to figure out the problem.
  - strace debugging: total fucking wizardry.
    - `strace {executablename}` - prints out all of the system calls your system makes when you run a particular executable.
    - `strace` will show you other programs a program runs, like `ssh`, with whatever flags ssh is using.
  - caveat: `strace` is slow! walks processes to print it all out.

- `perf` is awesome. {what's the analog in Mac OS?}
  - see L1 cache misses with `perf`. that's great for seeing whether or not you have well-optimized code.
  - perf can produce flame graphs!

- `ftrace` is awesome. it traces specific kernel functions.

- `/proc` is pretty awesome. the speaker just recovered a deleted file.


Strategies For Learning:
1. `strace` everything!
  - `dtruss` on mac?
2. Read some kernel code!
  - check out Linux Weekly News
3. Troll your friends!
4. Write your own OS!!!
5. Do the 'EUDALYPTA' challenge
  - a series of challenges to help you understand how to do kernel stuff {wrong, and then right}
6. Do a Linux Kernel internship
