FRP Front-End
=============

- "So Complex vs So Simple" quote
 * Ease does not imply simplicity. Without a lot of work, 'ease' delivers great complexity.


- What problems does JavaScript have?
  - JS was made in 10 days. The 'good parts' of the language are a very small subset of the language.
  - It was designed to be easy and accessible for non-programmers.
    - Note that the system is easy, but it's not necessarily simple. It's easy, but quite complicated.
  - Global mutable state – you can rewrite variables that hold state in any scope that has access to them.

- Why is CJS a good solution for these problems?
  - Not just cosmetic
  - No global mutable state
  - There's only one way to bind `this` - it's explicitly passed to functions
  - ES6 is great, but CJS has the kind of functionality that ES6 is adding, and it has that stuff RIGHT NOW.
 
- How is React's functional approach to DOM manipulation better than others?
  - "A large, globally accessible mutable object" (like the DOM) seems like, uh, a bad idea.
  - MVC frameworks are complex. Tight coupling between templates and data doesn't seem like they should be in two separate places.
  - React encapsulates and extracts away the DOM.
    - `render` is a functional mapping between data and what the DOM would look like with that data.
    - a `feed`  might have many `story` components which might have multiple `tag` components
    - all event handlers and all client-server communication goes into a giant goddamn mutable reference somewhere.
 
- What extra goodies does Om give us?
  - Om's 'cursors' let us take the large mutable reference mentioned previously and let us take just a piece of that thing and give it to {something else}
  - Om doesn't give us `shouldComponentUpdate`, but it sure is useful.
 
- What are the challenges and benefits of using these tools inproduction?
  - Speaker says  Om + CJS is ready for production, but says it's dependent on the team.
